d1: add backups + importing docs (#7548)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/d1/learning/importing-data.md

---

> title: Importing Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Importing data
```

weight: 1
pcx_content_type: concept
---

> # Importing Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Importing data
```

> D1 allows you to import existing SQLite tables & their data directly, enabling you to migrate existing data into D1 quickly and easily. This can be useful when migrating applications to use Workers + D1, or when you want to prototype a schema locally before importing it to your D1 database(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
D1 allows you to import existing SQLite tables and their data directly, enabling you to migrate existing data into D1 quickly and easily. This can be useful when migrating applications to use Workers and D1, or when you want to prototype a schema locally before importing it to your D1 database(s).
```

> ## Import an Existing Database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Import an existing database
```

> To import an existing SQLite database into D1, you need to:
> 
> 1. Have the Cloudflare [Wrangler CLI installed](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/)
> 2. Create a database to use as the target
> 3. Have an existing SQLite (version 3.0+) database file to import

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import an existing SQLite database into D1, you must have:

1. The Cloudflare [Wrangler CLI installed](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/).
2. A database to use as the target
3. An existing SQLite (version 3.0+) database file to import.
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> You cannot import a raw SQLite database (`.sqlite3` files) directly. See [how to convert an existing SQLite file](#converting-sqlite-database-files) first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot import a raw SQLite database (`.sqlite3` files) directly. Refer to [how to convert an existing SQLite file](#converting-sqlite-database-files) first.
```

{{</Aside>}}

> For example, consider the following `users_export.sql` schema & values, which includes a `CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS` statement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, consider the following `users_export.sql` schema & values, which includes a `CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS` statement:
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS users (
	id VARCHAR(50),
	full_name VARCHAR(50),
	created_on DATE
);
insert into users (id, full_name, created_on) values ('01GREFXCN9519NRVXWTPG0V0BF', 'Catlaina Harbar', '2022-08-20 05:39:52');
insert into users (id, full_name, created_on) values ('01GREFXCNBYBGX2GC6ZGY9FMP4', 'Hube Bilverstone', '2022-12-15 21:56:13');
insert into users (id, full_name, created_on) values ('01GREFXCNCWAJWRQWC2863MYW4', 'Christin Moss', '2022-07-28 04:13:37');
insert into users (id, full_name, created_on) values ('01GREFXCNDGQNBQAJG1AP0TYXZ', 'Vlad Koche', '2022-11-29 17:40:57');
insert into users (id, full_name, created_on) values ('01GREFXCNF67KV7FPPSEJVJMEW', 'Riane Zamora', '2022-12-24 06:49:04');
```

> With our `users_export.sql` file in the current working directory, we can pass the `--file=users_export.sql` flag to `d1 execute` to execute (import) our table schema & values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With your `users_export.sql` file in the current working directory, you can pass the `--file=users_export.sql` flag to `d1 execute` to execute (import) our table schema and values:
```

```sh
➜  wrangler d1 execute example-db --file=users_export.sql

🌀 Mapping SQL input into an array of statements
🌀 Parsing 1 statements
🌀 Executing on example-db (c7fe3a2a-9973-4231-85ff-edd63d7a4e6d):
🚣 Executed 1 command in 61.64555000513792ms
```

> To confirm our table was imported correctly and is queryable, we can execute a simple `SELECT` statement against our `users` table directly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To confirm your table was imported correctly and is queryable, execute a `SELECT` statement against your `users` table directly:
```

🌀 Mapping SQL input into an array of statements
🌀 Parsing 1 statements
🌀 Executing on example-db (63571930-b2f1-4bdb-bffa-a7db6ee04c5d):
🚣 Executed 1 command in 102.00563299655914ms
┌────────────────────────────┬──────────────────┬─────────────────────┐
│ id                         │ full_name        │ created_on          │
├────────────────────────────┼──────────────────┼─────────────────────┤
│ 01GREFXCN9519NRVXWTPG0V0BF │ Catlaina Harbar  │ 2022-08-20 05:39:52 │
├────────────────────────────┼──────────────────┼─────────────────────┤
│ 01GREFXCNBYBGX2GC6ZGY9FMP4 │ Hube Bilverstone │ 2022-12-15 21:56:13 │
├────────────────────────────┼──────────────────┼─────────────────────┤
│ 01GREFXCNCWAJWRQWC2863MYW4 │ Christin Moss    │ 2022-07-28 04:13:37 │
├────────────────────────────┼──────────────────┼─────────────────────┤
│ 01GREFXCNDGQNBQAJG1AP0TYXZ │ Vlad Koche       │ 2022-11-29 17:40:57 │
├────────────────────────────┼──────────────────┼─────────────────────┤
│ 01GREFXCNF67KV7FPPSEJVJMEW │ Riane Zamora     │ 2022-12-24 06:49:04 │
└────────────────────────────┴──────────────────┴─────────────────────┘
```

> Note that we apply a `LIMIT 100` clause here as a precaution: if we were importing a larger database with hundreds or thousands of rows, we may not want to output every row to the terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that we apply a `LIMIT 100` clause here as a precaution: if you were importing a larger database with hundreds or thousands of rows, you may not want to output every row to the terminal.
```

> From here, we can now query our new table from our Worker [using the D1 client API](https://developers.cloudflare.com/d1/platform/client-api/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From here, you can now query our new table from our Worker [using the D1 client API](https://developers.cloudflare.com/d1/platform/client-api/).
```

> ## Converting SQLite Database Files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Converting SQLite database files
```
